hey guys um back here this week with
another tutorial for you I've been doing
the audio device series but this week I
decided I'm gonna take a break I wanted
to do tutorial today on the choke
feature with the drum racks cuz I
recently I kinda have started a side
project or just do like hip-hop stuff
lately and I had to learn how to use the
choke features I had never used it
before so essentially what the choke
feature is I'm gonna open up a drum rack
that's just a preset from live that's
already set up and these are choke
features when used on drum machines for
a long time and essentially what it does
let me open this up a hurry it's already
open up okay so basically when you're
playing a drum set in real life you have
an open house you have a hat you'd see
they're gonna be open or closed but it
can't be hit open and closed at the same
time so essentially like a lot of times
this choke feature is used on the closed
hat and the open hat so that when you
play the open hat or a closed hat
they're gonna cut each other off to make
it more natural so if I play let's see
we're in ki age sharp 1 so and then F
sharp 1 so you can hear that when I hit
those if I just hold the open hat it
plays through but if I hit the closed
hat at the same time it'll cut it off or
choke it to stop so how this works is
what I had to learn so I didn't
understand if you go to these features
to get to this though if you just had it
open normally like that you need to go
to this second one and you need to
actually this aisle won't be selected
either so you need to go to this part
right here and hit the i/o and then it
will open up the different options for
each chant like each little pad
essentially so if you go to it it shows
like it has a choke section and most of
them have none but as you can see the
closed hat in the open hat habit and
there's none or 16 choices and these and
I first was kind of confused on how to
use this because you know there are 16
pads here so that's what kind of
confused me but what you do is you
select say these are both set to one so
you could essentially set all of these
to one and they would all cut each other
off basically
I'm all set to one so anything that's on
the same channel choking itself is going
to cut itself off so what I did here
with this kind of hip-hop track I've
been playing around 808 and kind of
learning how they tune the drums and
stuff so I just kind of use the same
kick and copied it a bunch of times and
then re pitch them all to get this
here we go so you can see that contact
with the pitching it goes rhythmically
with the song on but what I had to do
was I had to keep switching the screen
really quickly um if you didn't want to
know how to do a quick he is shift in
tab will change from the piano roll
basically or like the clip view window
to like all your to the device audio
device section of your channel and then
also another quick he just random tab
switches back and forth from session
view to arrangement if you didn't know
that anyways back to what we were
talking about here so basically yeah
what I did is I set all these kicks to
you know the same channels choke because
if you didn't have them choking they
would play through and it would just get
all muddy so if I actually take these
first two you can hear them and I'll
actually take them off choke stage just
listen to these
so they cut each other off so let's see
it's this one in this one so if I take
these both off choke and you can hear
it's gonna turn into kind of a mess
and you're just getting tons of phasing
now and they're not cutting off like
this is a good way to do this because if
you do it this way you can choke them
with the drum rack or you can just
bounce them down to audio but I just
kind of like working with the drum racks
so this was a really quick tutorial I
just kind of wanted to go over this
feature because it was something that I
just had to learn how to use recently
just to do this song because I've never
really I've put stuff in drum racks
before but I've never had to sit there
and kind of figure out how to get them
to cut each other off so I hope this
video helped if you have any questions
or have any ideas for other tutorials
that you like to hear also I'll put a
link to this song in the video too if
you want to check it out anyways hope
you guys have a great night
you